documentation/REST.md, before:

## REST API

All queries return results in JSON format.

### REST API queries

#### /list_entries/[metabolomics|macromolecule]

Returns a list of all entries.
[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/list_entries/)
is an example.
Adding
[/macromolecule/](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/list_entries/macromolecule)
or
[/metabolomics/](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/list_entries/metabolomics)
at the end will only return the entries of that type.

#### /entry/$ENTRY_ID/[$ENTRY_FORMAT]

Returns the given BMRB entry in [JSON format](ENTRY.md#entry)by default. If
$ENTRY_FORMAT is specified then return in that format instead.

Only `json` and `nmrstar` are currently allowed for $ENTRY_FORMAT.

[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/entry/15000/) is an example.

#### /saveframe/$ENTRY_ID/$SAVEFRAME_CATEGORY/[$ENTRY_FORMAT]

Returns all saveframes of the given category for an entry in
[JSON format](ENTRY.md#saveframe) by default. If $ENTRY_FORMAT is specified then
return in that format instead.

Only `json` and `nmrstar` are currently allowed for $ENTRY_FORMAT.

[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/saveframe/15000/assigned_chemical_shifts)
is an example query.

#### /loop/$ENTRY_ID/$LOOP_CATEGORY/[$ENTRY_FORMAT]

Returns all loops of a given category for a given entry in
[JSON format](ENTRY.md#loop) by default. If $ENTRY_FORMAT is specified then
return in that format instead.

Only `json` and `nmrstar` are currently allowed for $ENTRY_FORMAT.

[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/loop/15000/_Sample_condition_variable)
is an example query.

#### /tag/$ENTRY_ID/$TAG_NAME

Returns tags of a specified type for a given entry.
[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/tag/15000/_Entry.Title)
is an example.

#### /chemical_shifts/[$ATOM_TYPE]/[$DATABASE]

Returns all of the chemical shifts in the BMRB for the specified atom type. You
can omit the atom type to fetch all chemical shifts and you can use `*` as a
wildcard character. Optionally specify `macromolecule` or `metabolomics` for the
database argument to search a specific database. `macromolecule` is the default.

* [All chemical shifts](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/)
* [All CA chemical shifts](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/CA)
* [All HB* chemical shifts](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/HB*)

* [All C1 chemical shifts from metabolomics database](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/C1/metabolomics)

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect changes to databases and to add status method.

documentation/REST.md, after:

## REST API

All queries return results in JSON format.

### REST API queries

#### /status/

Returns the current status of the databases. This includes the number of entries
in each database, the number of chemical shifts in each database, and the last
time each database was updated. The available REST and JSON-RPC methods are also
returned, as well as the version number of the API.

#### /list_entries/[metabolomics|macromolecule|chemcomps]

Returns a list of all entries.
[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/list_entries/)
is an example.
Adding
[/macromolecule/](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/list_entries/macromolecule)
or
[/metabolomics/](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/list_entries/metabolomics)
or
[/chemcomps/](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/list_entries/chemcomps)
at the end will only return the entries of that type.

#### /entry/$ENTRY_ID/[$ENTRY_FORMAT]

Returns the given BMRB entry in [JSON format](ENTRY.md#entry)by default. If
$ENTRY_FORMAT is specified then return in that format instead.

Only `json` and `nmrstar` are currently allowed for $ENTRY_FORMAT.

[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/entry/15000/) is an example.

#### /saveframe/$ENTRY_ID/$SAVEFRAME_CATEGORY/[$ENTRY_FORMAT]

Returns all saveframes of the given category for an entry in
[JSON format](ENTRY.md#saveframe) by default. If $ENTRY_FORMAT is specified then
return in that format instead.

Only `json` and `nmrstar` are currently allowed for $ENTRY_FORMAT.

[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/saveframe/15000/assigned_chemical_shifts)
is an example query.

#### /loop/$ENTRY_ID/$LOOP_CATEGORY/[$ENTRY_FORMAT]

Returns all loops of a given category for a given entry in
[JSON format](ENTRY.md#loop) by default. If $ENTRY_FORMAT is specified then
return in that format instead.

Only `json` and `nmrstar` are currently allowed for $ENTRY_FORMAT.

[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/loop/15000/_Sample_condition_variable)
is an example query.

#### /tag/$ENTRY_ID/$TAG_NAME

Returns tags of a specified type for a given entry.
[Here](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/tag/15000/_Entry.Title)
is an example.

#### /chemical_shifts/[$ATOM_TYPE]/[$DATABASE]

Returns all of the chemical shifts in the BMRB for the specified atom type. You
can omit the atom type to fetch all chemical shifts and you can use `*` as a
wildcard character. Optionally specify `macromolecule` or `metabolomics` for the
database argument to search a specific database. `macromolecule` is the default.

* [All chemical shifts](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/)
* [All CA chemical shifts](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/CA)
* [All HB* chemical shifts](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/HB*)

* [All C1 chemical shifts from metabolomics database](http://webapi.bmrb.wisc.edu/current/rest/chemical_shifts/C1/metabolomics)
